openMediAid is built by a community of volunteers - many people contribute in different roles. Contributions may be one-time submissions of ideas, code or other. Some people commit themselves to contribute regularly. Depending on your level of commitment we would love to see you become a member of one of the following teams.

<a name="core-team"></a>

h2(#core-team). Core Team

The core team consists of people who feel a strong commitment to the project. They constantly push the project with regular contributions and participate on a daily basis. They usually donate _15+ hours of work per week_.

Are you looking for an opportunity to shape and develop the openMediAid platform together with other great people who have their hearts in the right place and their heads filled with ideas? We will be very happy to receive your email at @core-team (at) openmediaid (dot) org@ telling us about your skills and motivation.

*Benjamin Diedrichsen (30)*,
studied computer science and economics. He works as a software engineer since 2007 - doing mostly server side programming - and is an active committer in various open source projects. Beginning in summer 2009 he spent a year in a rural area of Mexico where he gave computer lessons at a secondary school and managed IT infrastructure of an NGO. In early spring 2012 and after approximately 2 years of persistent health problems, he was diagnosed with a form of rheumatism called Morbus Bechterew.

bq. After many consultations with different doctors I experienced how little effort was made to include myself into the process of dealing with my illness. I discovered that the most useful information resulted from internet research, scientific literature and recommendations of people I talked to. During my research I hit many pay-walls and was overwhelmed by unstructured and low-quality medical information floating around the internet. As a software developer I know this can be done much better. As a human being I trust in the powers and intelligence of the crowd. As a patient I want to share their my medical data with others in order to give and receive help.



*Andreas Andresen (30)*,
is a mathematician, currently working on his doctorate thesis in theoretical statistics at the &quot;Weierstraß Institute for Analysis and Stochastic&quot;. During his studies at the Humboldt-University Berlin he was involved in the initiatives &quot;Stipendienkritik&quot; und &quot;Stipendienspenden&quot; which were trying to make the distribution of grants more suited to the actual needs of the receivers. He also has his personal story of persistent health problems as a motivation for his work on openMediAid.

bq. After returning from South Africa I started to suffer from frequently reoccurring infections that significantly impaired my general well-being and my ability to do sports. Unfortunately, it has neither been possible to find a proper explanation for my condition nor has any treatment led to significant improvements. Due to &quot;unspecific symptoms&quot; family doctors and medical specialists were soon at their wits end.



bq. Consultations were repeatedly very superficial and suggested treatments not more elaborate then what one would find in the suggestions of Wikipedia. I sometimes felt like a burden for the consulted doctors and soon lost my motivation to find a cure by consultation of physicians. I want to use my analytical skills and knowledge of mathematical statistics to contribute to the data mining and machine learning algorithms that will make openMediAid a smart promoter of knowledge.



*Richard Hopp (24)*,
studied a interdisciplinary combination of IT and Design to combine two of his versatile interests. He did an internship at the sustainable media agency "sinnwerkstatt":https://www.sinnwerkstatt.com/ in Berlin and thereby worked on a open source economic balancing tool for the common good. Now he is developing a UI-/UX-Prototype for the OpenMediAid project as his bachelor thesis.

bq. Since my dad is an homeopath, I have always been interested in medicine, healthcare, alternative practices and the value of a healthy life. I have also always been interested in design which I combined with IT thanks to my studies and one aspect I liked most was to develop user interfaces and the user experience of web-apps.
This project caught my interest when I met Benjamin during my internship in Berlin and in my opinion it is absolutely worth supporting. Especially because of the key-principles like openess, transparency and non-profit organization, but also to empower patients and doctors to collaborate on finding a cure and making health management as simple and intuitive as possible.



<a name="support-team"></a>

h2(#support-team). Support Team

The support team provides an important part of the workforce and bring in diversity of skills. They help the core team to get things done and usually donate _4+ hours of work per week_.
Do you feel like contributing to the project regularly but without the commitment of almost daily participation? Great! Write us an email to @support-team (at) openmediaid (dot) org@ and tell us about yourself.

We are especially looking for

* Javascript developers (backend, frontend, fullstack)

* Students of medicine

* DevOps and/or SysAdmins

* People interested in communications and PR

* Drupal CMS admin

<a name="board-of-advisors"></a>

h2(#board-of-advisors). Board of advisors

The board of advisors consists of experts in different areas who are supporting the project as consultants. They provide the project with their expertise and guidance for specific questions that require very special knowledge.

We need more expertise especially in the following areas

* Human physiology and medical diagnostic

* Fundraising / Crowdfunding

* Accounting

* Law

WANT TO BECOME A MEMBER? Write us an email to @advisory-board (at) openmediaid (dot) org@ and tell us about your expertise.

